

Chapter 4
Numbers Add Up
In this chapter I want to look at numbers that are found in almost every text—
whether they be about the numbers of days or the age of a person or the numbers 
of people in a certain group. You will always come across numbers, and I have 
found that they can really add a great deal to a sermon. The following information 
is from a website called C.A.R.M., Christian Apologetics & Research Ministry. The 
reason why I want you to read what they have to say about this is because they 
truly have researched this topic and can break it down better than I can.
C.A.R.M. says:
What is Biblical Numerology?
It seems quite obvious that the Bible uses numbers in patterns. Who can deny that 
40 is significant? Jesus was in the desert for 40 days, and the Israelites wandered 
in the desert for 40 years. Whether or not the analysis of these number patterns is 
accurate is up for debate. But I present to you this information condensed from 
the book Number in Scripture by Bullinger. One of the interesting features of 
Hebrew and Greek is that in both written languages there are no numeric 
characters. Where we have numbers and letters, they have only letters. So, in each 
language the letters are also used as numbers. In a small way we do the same 
thing in English. For example, is “O” a zero or a letter in the alphabet? Is “l” a one 
or a small L? When they are used, the context tells us which is which and we have 
no problem understanding it. The same goes for Hebrew and Greek. They knew 
when they were writing numbers and when they were writing letters.
But the interesting thing is that when a word is written, it also has a numeric 
equivalent. For example, the word “Jesus” in Greek is “iasous.” Since each letter 
has a numeric equivalent, we can add up each number and get a value. The value 
is the gammatria. Therefore, the gammatria of “Jesus” in Greek is 888 because i = 
10, a = 8, s = 200, o = 70, u = 400, s = 200. There are many interesting ‘games’ 
that can be played with this feature of Greek and Hebrew and much of it is absurd. 
But, some of the numeric relationships are interesting.
Like I said they know how to explain it better than I would be able to. Whether or 
not the numbers really do have a significance is still debated in many circles. The 
main reason is because some people try to find out the end time dates and year 
based on Biblical numerology, and we know from the Bible no person knows the 
time of the end. But you will see in the Bible where numbers play a significant part 
in a lot of texts. Nevertheless, I present the information for your examination.
I have been taught by some of my teachers the meanings of Biblical numerology. I 
have also researched a few websites and I’ve read many commentaries about 
Biblical numerology. I have seen a lot of the websites agree about the following 

numbers and their meanings on the chart below, but most importantly I have 
matched and aligned it by connecting it to the Word.
Number — Meaning
1 — God, Unity; New beginnings
2 — Union; Witnessing
3 — Unity, Divine completeness and perfection
4 — Creation; The world; Creative works
5 — Grace; God’s goodness; Pentateuch (first five books)
6 — Weakness of man; Manifestation of sin; Evils of Satan
7 — Resurrection; Spiritual completeness; Father’s perfection
8 — New birth; New beginnings
9 — Fruit of the Spirit; Divine completeness from the Father
10 — Testimony; Law and responsibility; Trial
11 — Disorder and judgment
12 — Governmental perfection; Family
13 — Apostasy; Depravity and rebellion
14 — Deliverance; Salvation
15 — Rest
16 — Love
17 — Victory
18 — Bondage
19 — Faith
20 — Redemption
21 — Exceeding sinfulness of sin
22 — Light
23 — Death
24 — The Priesthood
25 — Repentance; The forgiveness of sins
26 — The Gospel of Christ
27 — Preaching of the Gospel
28 — Eternal life
29 — Departure
30 — Blood of Christ; Dedication
31 — Offspring
32 — Covenant
33 — Promise
34 — Naming of a son
35 — Hope
36 — Enemy
37 — The word of our Father
38 — Slavery
39 — Disease
40 — Trials; Probation; Testings

42 — Israel’s oppression; First advent
44 — Judgment of the World
45 — Preservation
50 — Holy Spirit; Pentecost
60 — Pride
66 — Idol worship
70 — Punishment and restoration of Israel; Universality
100 — Election; Children of the promise
119 — Spiritual perfection and victory (7×17=119)
120 — Divine period of probation
144 — The Spirit-guided life
200 — Insufficiency
600 — Warfare
666 — Antichrist
777 — Christ
888 — Holy Spirit; The sum of Tree of Life
1000 — Divine completeness and Father’s glory, blessing
4000 — Salvation of the world through the blood of the Lamb (Those who chose 
between Christ and Antichrist)
6000 — Deception of Antichrist; Second advent
144,000 — Those numbered of Israel
Now that I have given you a little information about Biblical numerology let’s 
connect it to the Bible. Let’s look at the number four, the number of Creation, the 
world—North, South, East, West; four seasons. The fourth commandment is the 
first that refers to the earth. The fourth clause of the Lord’s Prayer is the first that 
mentions the earth. The materials of the tabernacle were four and so were the 
coverings and the ornamentations.
Let’s connect it to the story of Lazarus in John chapter 11. In this story Lazarus has 
been dead for four days and on the fourth day Jesus shows up to resurrect him 
from the dead. After Lazarus rises from the dead, many people believe in Jesus, so 
Lazarus became a witness to and for the resurrecting power of Jesus. Also, I have 
learned that back in those days because of the heat and moisture plus the insects 
the dead body would be exposed to, the body would start to decompose—in other 
words it would begin to rot. So with some of the information we have found out 
about the number four we could connect it in a sermon and say something like 
this:
“No matter how bad you think your life is falling apart and no matter how bad it is, 
if you roll the stone away, allow God to remove the things that are blocking you 
from the resurrecting power of God, He will put the pieces back together. Because 
before you can see and experience the resurrecting power upon you and your 
house you have to die to the things of the world. Then you will rise up to be the 

witness God has called you to be to the world.”
Let’s look at another example. Four is the number of the world. It represents man’s 
weakness and helplessness. But 4+1=5 when divine strength is added. We are 
made perfect in our weakness. The Bible says God’s grace is sufficient for us.
Five: the number of grace. Redemption. Israel came out of Egypt five in rank 
(Exodus 13:18). David picked up five smooth stones to fight Goliath (1 Samuel 
17:40). The holy anointing oil was pure and composed of five parts (Exodus 
30:23–25).
Let’s look at a story to connect this number to grace.
“J o n a t h a n ,   S a u l ’s   s o n ,   h a d   a   s o n   w h o   w a s   l a m e   i n   h i s   fe e t .   H e   w a s   f i ve   ye a r s   o l d  
when the news about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel; and his nurse took 
him up and fled. And it happened, as she made haste to flee, that he fell and 
became lame. His name was Mephibosheth” (2 Samuel 4:4).
Mephibosheth was Jonathan’s son, King Saul’s grandson. The reason why 
Mephibosheth’s nurse was running and fell was because she just found out that 
her masters, Saul and Jonathan, were killed in battle and she was afraid for 
Mephibosheth’s life. Back in those days when an enemy would kill a king they 
would usually take the king’s position over and rule the kingdom and they would 
kill all the remaining male family members of the king so they would not grow up 
and try to avenge their family’s throne. So the nurse knew she had to run and try 
to save the life of the boy that was only five years old. Something happened, 
though, when this boy got older in the book of 2 Samuel chapter nine:
“One day David asked, ‘Is anyone in Saul’s family still alive—anyone to whom I can 
show kindness for Jonathan’s sake?’ ... His name was Mephibosheth; he was 
Jonathan’s son and Saul’s grandson. When he came to David, he bowed low to the 
ground in deep respect.
David said, ‘Greetings, Mephibosheth.’
Mephibosheth replied, ‘I am your servant.’
‘Don’t be afraid!’ David said. ‘I intend to show kindness to you because of my 
promise to your father, Jonathan. I will give you all the property that once 
belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will eat here with me at the king’s 
table!’
Mephibosheth bowed respectfully and exclaimed, ‘Who is your servant, that you 
should show such kindness to a dead dog like me?’ ... And Mephibosheth, who was 
crippled in both feet, lived in Jerusalem and ate regularly at the king’s table” (2 
Samuel 9:1, 6–8, 13 NLT).
You see, King David took the throne of Saul after he died but instead of David 

looking to kill Saul’s family members he was looking to show kindness. Another 
word for kindness is grace. The reason why David did this was because Jonathan 
was his best friend and they were really close to each other. One day they made a 
covenant that when David took the throne he would watch out for Jonathan’s 
family. David kept his word. There is so much insight to this story, like how 
Mephibosheth’s name means “idol exterminator,” but we are talking about 
numbers in this chapter so you’re just going to have to study it yourself. Now that 
we know a little bit about the story of Mephibosheth we can connect the story and 
the number five to a sermon and say something like this:
“Sin came into this world through Adam and Eve and we are still dealing with the 
consequence of their fall and the only way we can get right is by accepting the 
invitation of the King of kings to come sit at His table of provision and blessing 
through His Grace. Maybe you have even fallen because someone hurt you and 
has dropped you from God. Whatever the reason is the King is calling you back, so 
destroy those idols in your life and humbly bow to His saving grace and become 
the servant God has called you to be, even though we truly don’t deserve it. But 
that’s what Grace is—something not deserved but given anyway!”
Let’s look at another example. Eight: the number of new beginnings—eight people 
on Noah’s ark (2 Peter 2:5); circumcision on the 8th day (Genesis 17:12); God 
made eight covenants with Abraham.
“For if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell and 
delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved for judgment; and did not 
spare the ancient world, but saved Noah, one of eight people, a preacher of 
righteousness, bringing in the flood on the world of the ungodly” (2 Peter 2:4–5 
NKJV).
In the story of Noah beginning in Genesis chapter five, Noah, his wife, his three 
sons, and his three daughters-in-law—a total of eight people—were the only ones 
who were saved in the ark when God sent the flood on the earth. This means that 
they had to repopulate the earth. It was like the world began all over again. It was a 
new beginning! You can connect it in a sermon and say something like this:
“Like Noah and his family, when we seek God and do what He says no matter what 
happens around us God will lift us above the problems of this life and even when 
Satan comes as a flood if you seek after God’s Kingdom and His righteousness, 
God will raise up a standard against the enemy and you will have new beginnings 
in your life no matter how far you have fallen and no matter what you’ve done, God 
will restore you.”
Let’s look at another example. Eighteen: the number representing bondage. The 
children of Israel were in bondage to their enemies twice for the period of eighteen 
years. The story of the children of Israel in bondage to the Egyptians is mentioned 

eighteen times in the Bible. Jesus healed a woman that was bound by the devil 
eighteen years.
“And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and 
was bent over and could in no way raise herself up. But when Jesus saw her, He 
called her to Him and said to her, ‘Woman, you are loosed from your infirmity.’ And 
He laid His hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and glorified 
God. ... ‘So ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has 
bound eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath?’” (Luke 13:11–13, 
16 NKJV).
You can say something like this in reference to this Scripture:
“Today maybe you’re dealing with bondage and it causes you to put your head 
down in condemnation, or maybe you’re bound by a sickness in your body that the 
enemy is attacking you with and it’s causing you to be depressed. Whatever the 
situation is Jesus wants to set you free from your bondage! All you have to do is 
believe it because He has already loosed you from that bondage in your life. 
Believe it and walk by faith because our God is the same yesterday, today, and 
forever!”
The numbers truly add up in a text. All numbers might not make sense in certain 
Scriptures, but when you see a number in the text at least see if you can add it to 
make the sermon more in-depth and to bring out the fullness of the story. To find 
out how to search the numbers in the Bible check the resource page in the back of 
this book.