

Chapter 12
Conclusion
I know there are so many other ways to lay a sermon down and study, but I felt led 
to at least share what the Lord showed me. I remember when I preached in front of 
my class in Bible school, there was a panel of pastors and bishops judging the way 
I preached. After I was done they pointed out my strong points and my weak points 
in the preaching. I had more weak points than strong points. They pointed out my 
repetitive words like “amen,” “praise God,” and they showed me how my sermon 
was not structured properly. After they made their assessment, I thought I wasn’t 
even called to preach or be a pastor, but it was used to help me.
The Bible says in the book of Proverbs, “Whoever loves instruction loves 
knowledge, but he who hates correction is stupid” (Proverbs 12:1). We can never 
know enough about our God. The Apostle John said it right when he said, “This is 
the disciple who testifies of these things, and wrote these things; and we know 
that his testimony is true. And there are also many other things that Jesus did, 
which if they were written one by one, I suppose that even the world itself could 
not contain the books that would be written. Amen” (John 21:24–25 NKJV). Dig 
deeper and hunger and thirst for righteousness through His Word. He promises 
you will be filled. So start digging. “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like treasure 
hidden in a field, which a man found and hid; and for joy over it he goes and sells 
all that he has and buys that field” (Matthew 13:44).
If you think about the story, many people walked right over the treasure, but one 
man was diligent and found the treasure and sold everything he had to buy the 
field to receive the treasure. We have to understand the same thing. We have 
passed by the stories and Scriptures in the Bible, not realizing there’s so much 
more if you are willing to dig, if you’re willing to be sold out to studying the Word 
with diligence.
The Greek word for “treasure” in this text is thēsauros, which means an 
accumulated wealth, storehouse, the things laid up in a treasury, collected 
treasures. Thēsauros is where we get our English word “thesaurus” (a book 
containing systematized lists of synonyms and related words; a dictionary of 
selected words or topics; rare: a treasury).
Praise God! And just for you to know, I have never shared this with anyone yet, 
because as I was writing this chapter God gave me the story of the man that found 
the treasure, so I began to study it and that was what I discovered. A fresh 
revelation, another piece of treasure to use for God’s glory.
You can start receiving God’s treasure as well, but we have to be like the man that 

found the treasure and be totally sold out to God’s Word. Then you can say what 
the great psalmist said, “I rejoice at Your word as one who finds great treasure” 
(Psalm 119:162).
“But without faith it is impossible to please Him, for he who comes to God must 
believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him” 
(Hebrews 11:6). Remember what the word diligent meant.
Pronunciation: ek-zā-te’-ō
Outline of Biblical usage:
1) to seek out, search for
2) to seek out, i.e., investigate, scrutinize
3) to seek out for one’s self, beg, crave
4) to demand back, require
So get reading because leaders are readers.
I pray that the Lord will give you revelation through the Scriptures for His glory and 
that you would minister like never before, to bring people into a deeper 
understanding with their God so that they can be changed and used for service to 
bring people into the Kingdom of God through the Word of God.
Challenge yourself and always remember we study for service because of our 
Savior. Because the more you know your text, the more people will know their God!
Resource Page
“Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do he will do 
also; and greater works than these he will do, because I go to My Father” (John 
14:12).
How in the world can we do greater things than Jesus? I believe Jesus was 
referring to how the church as a body working together could do more because He 
was going to send His Holy Spirit on the earth to His believers. I also believe He 
must have been referring to technology as well. Think about this: the TBN 
Christian channel gets millions of viewers a day all across the world and they 
minister the Gospel to them all at one time. Christian Internet sites are used to 
minister to millions. Christian radio stations are used to minister to millions.
I believe people who do not know how to work a computer need to learn; it’s not 
that complicated. It’s very easy. The reason why we should do this is because we 
can study a lot easier and more effectively.
The following are some websites I use to find the information I need when I study.
- www.sermonillustrations.com — Click on the first letter of your illustrated word. If 

you want a story about love, click on the letter “L.”
- www.sermoncentral.com — Click on Illustrations. Type in the key word of your 
illustration.
- www.biblestudy.org — Click on Bible Reference Books. Helpful complete books 
online: What Do Numbers Mean?
- www.google.com — Type in the name of whatever you’re looking for, like “the 
Greek word for Jesus.” Then it will give you many listings.
- www.wikipedia.org — Then type in what you’re looking for.
- www.blueletterbible.com — Also available on a smartphone as an app. This is 
what I mainly use. Highly recommend this.
- www.apostolic-churches.net — This site has Greek and Hebrew definitions with 
Strong’s Concordance.
- www.dictionary.com — Type in any word for definition.
- www.e-sword.com — Download and then add commentaries, dictionaries, and 
Bibles. Check up the original languages.
If you don’t want to use the Internet, buy yourself the following books:
1) KJV Strong’s Concordance Bible with the Greek and Hebrew word definitions.
2) Spirit-Filled Bible with commentary and dictionary.
3) Any book that has biblical illustrated stories.
4) You can also use this book as a Bible study to teach others how to study the 
Bible and prepare sermons and lessons.
You can buy or order these from any Christian bookstore. You can also call or text 
me at (708) 296-7663 with any questions. Don’t hesitate to call me; I want to help
—whether it’s helping you with a definition or a story or even to pray.