

Chapter 11 Leaving a Legacy
“The wise will inherit glory, but shame will be the legacy of fools.”
Proverbs 3:35 MEV
According to Collins English Dictionary, a legacy of an event or period
of history is something which is a direct result of it and which continues
to exist after it is over.
When you look at the differences of Jonah’s and Jesus’ legacy, they are
very different. Jonah’s story ends with a question mark (see Jonah 4:11).
Jesus’ story actually never ends, obviously—but in the Bible before He
ascends to heaven He commissioned His disciples to go and change the
world (Matthew 28). Why did his disciples and millions after them suffer
pain, humiliation, and even death for the cause of Christ? Simple—
because of the legacy that Jesus left that inspired their lives even unto
death
My question is this: after you leave this earth, will you leave a legacy
that inspires others to turn to Jesus or turn from Jesus? Personally, after
God takes me home to be with the Lord, I want to know that even after
my time is done here on earth that God will continue to use me. I pray
that long after I am gone, the teachings God gave me to minister, the
books He has allowed me to write, and the life He allowed me to live for
His Glory, will still be shared, read, and talked about from generation to
generation. Why? Simple, because I want God to use all that He allowed
me to do for Him to point many more to Him even after I’m gone.
I eagerly wait and serve Jesus here so that when I get there I will hear
those amazing and humbling words from Jesus: “Welcome home, my
good and faithful servant; enter into the joy of your rest.”
I feel sorry for the people that will hear, “Go away from me for I have
never known you, you workers of iniquity” (Matthew 7:21).
The grace you receive and the life you live here will determine what you
will hear in the life that truly matters, eternity. You will live an eternity
somewhere, the question is—where will it be?
Choose to live for Jesus here and live a life that after you’re gone you
will still point people to the resurrected Christ! As I was preparing this
chapter, I began to think about a story in the Bible about the prophet
Elisha. Elisha was a prophet under the prophet Elijah, one of the most
powerful and influential prophets ever. Elisha learned everything from
his mentor Elijah’s great examples concerning the things of God. Elisha

was also a powerful man of God that received a double portion of
Elisha’s anointing on his life. Elisha lived and served God and he
influenced many for the glory of God. The verse you are about to read
actually has to do with what God did through the prophet Elisha—not
while he was living but after he died.
The prophet was dead and his bones laid in a burial site. Now, before the
prophet Elisha took the place of his predecessor Elijah, he asked Elijah
for a double portion of the anointing that was on Elijah’s life (2 Kings
2:9). God ended up granting Elisha’s request. The prophet Elijah was
used by God to perform fourteen miracles, ranging from prophesies
fulfilled, stopping the rain for a time, to raising the dead. The prophet
Elisha died after performing twenty seven miracles, one short of the
double portion blessing—or so we thought.’”
“Once when some Israelites were burying a man, they spied a band of
these raiders. So they hastily threw the corpse into the tomb of Elisha
and fled. But as soon as the body touched Elisha’s bones, the dead man
revived and jumped to his feet!”
2 Kings 13:21 NLT
Praise God—number twenty eight. The fulfillment of the double portion
happened after the prophet was dead. His legacy made the dead leap to
life. That just gets me exited every time I read that verse because it
teaches us that after we’re gone our testimony and life can still make
people tap into the resurrecting power of Christ!
Do you want your life to end with a question mark like Jonah’s? When
people pass away, we ask questions about their view of eternity and their
loved ones place. Do you think they made it to heaven? Why did this
happen to them? I wonder what’s going to happen to their family? Do
you think they had time to repent? If they only would have served the
Lord, wouldn’t it have been different?
Instead of leaving this world with a question mark, leave it with an
exclamation point! Peoples’ spirits should be raised in excitement about
how we live for Christ. Even when we pass away, our testimony should
help them mourn in joy after our death because they know we lived a life
that pointed people to Christ and that we helped people experience the
resurrection saving power of Jesus!
So instead of being filled with doubtful questions, they can be filled with
faith and inspiration and can make bold statements of the person’s faith. I
wish I could serve God like they did! They really inspired me to serve

God! They led me to Christ! They helped my family to really know
Christ! I want to follow in their footsteps! They really were an example
of Christ! They really loved and had compassion for people!
Let’s look at the life of Jonah when compared to Jesus.
The following seven points are from an article I read about the parallels
about Jonah and Jesus:
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Jonah spent three days inside the belly of a great fish because of
his own sinfulness and rebellion. Jesus spent three days inside
the belly of the earth because of our sin and rebellion.
Jonah ran from the difficult calling God gave Him (Jonah 1:3).
Jesus perfectly obeyed the Father’s will, coming to earth and
dying on the cross
Jonah was asleep on the ship during a storm caused by his own
disobedience (Jonah 1:4-12). Jesus slept on a boat during a
storm, and “rebuked the wind and said to the waves, ‘Quiet! Be
still!’ Then the wind died down and it was completely
calm.” (Mark 4:35-41). Jonah caused a storm. Jesus had
authority over the storm.
Jonah feared the Creator who had authority on earth (Jonah 1:9).
Jesus is the Creator with all authority over heaven and earth
(John 1:3; Matthew 28:18).
In the fish, Jonah knew that “Salvation belongs to the
Lord” (Jonah 2:9). Jesus’ name means “Yahweh saves.” Jesus is
the way of salvation (Hebrews 5:9; Acts 4:12).
Jonah became angry with God for showing grace toward
repentant sinners (Jonah 4:2). Jesus modeled God’s grace toward
repentant sinners (Romans 3:24).
7. Jonah was angry enough to die because of God’s grace toward
his enemies (Jonah 4:3). Jesus was compassionate enough to die
because of His love for his enemies (Romans 5:10).
The question we must ask is, are we more like Jesus or Jonah? The
prayer we must pray is, make me more like Jesus.
Don’t be a Jonah!
It’s time to stop running like Jonah and start serving like Jesus so you can
impact this generation and the next!
Epilogue

My prayer is that you’ve learned enough in this book to get you to say
yes to the calling that God has for your life, and that you would start a
daily reading of the book that truly matters—the Bible!
I mentioned in the previous chapters how we are called to be like
ambassadors for God. Ambassadors are experts in the laws of their land,
and foreign lands as well. What’s the point? Like ambassadors, we too
need to know the law of the kingdom and the Word of God. Then we can
help others in this foreign land to point them to our home in heaven.
Start a daily devotional in the Word of God. Why? The subtitle to this
book is, “Stop running like Jonah and start serving like Jesus.” Well, the
only way you can truly start serving like Jesus is to study the life of
Jesus; study the Gospels that tell us of Jesus, and study the whole book
that Jesus gave to us to learn to be like Him. The Bible is what changed
my life, the lives of many people I know, and millions more like us.
Every man and women of God I know that is walking in their call are
people of the Word who started a daily devotional in the Word of God
and never stopped reading it. Why? Because they know that the Word is
their bread, meat, water, and life. Please don’t let this book be where it
ends—let it be a beginning. Don’t let this be the conclusion and just say,
good book—and that’s it. Let it actually be the start of you getting in the
book that truly matters. The Bible.
That’s the only way you will learn how to serve Jesus and walk in your
calling.If you read the Bible for fifteen minutes a day you can read it in a year.
Fifteen minutes a day is actually only one percent of your day. If we
can’t give God one percent, how do we expect one hundred percent from
Him?
If you read a chapter a day you can read it in about three and a half years,
about the same time Jesus spent with his disciples.
However you decide to read, just start reading!
Start in the New Testament and continue through the Old Testament.
“Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,”
Jonah 1:1 KJV
“And the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the second time, saying,”
Jonah 3:1 KJV
Jonah was a man of God that knew the word of God and I believe the
Word is what kept him and no matter how far he went off course the
Word brought him back. This is why we need the word every day in our
lives as well.

“In the beginning the Word already existed. The Word was with God, and
the Word was God. He existed in the beginning with God. God created
everything through him, and nothing was created except through him.
The Word gave life to everything that was created, and his life brought
light to everyone.”
John 1:1-4 NLT