

 
Chapter 4: The Isolation Trap
I want to spend just a few moments in this chapter discussing the dangers
of being isolated.
Jonah was always by himself, alone in the ship, alone on the mountain.
He was always alone. Why? Because the enemy wants to get you alone
to speak his lies and make you feel like you are by yourself and no one
cares.
Proverbs 18:1 says, “A man who isolates him self seeks his own desire;
He rages against all wise judgment.”
The Hebrew word for isolation here is the word parad. It means to
separate, break into pieces, to divide, to make a division, be out of joint
and to break (BLB Lexicon).
When you search the Bible you will see it is often when people were
alone when the enemy attacked them with discouragement and
temptation the most. This caused them to be separated from the people
that cared for them. It lead to divisions and even caused people to break
God’s law—breaking covenant with God!
For instance, look at what took place with Elijah in the book of 1 Kings.
We see that he just experienced a major victory from the Lord, defeating
the 850 false prophets of the evil Queen Jezebel. He had help killing all
these false prophets because the people of Israel helped him. Something
happened after the victory, though—Jezebel found out and sent
messengers to threaten Elijah. This is what she said:
“Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So may the gods do to
me and even more, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by
tomorrow about this time." And he was afraid and arose and ran for his
life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant
there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came
and sat down under a juniper tree; and he requested for himself that he
might die, and said, "It is enough; now, O LORD, take my life, for I am
not better than my fathers."”1 Kings 19:2-4 NASB
This caused Elijah to run away from Jezebel, resulting in him being
alone, driven by fear and isolated from everyone. While Elijah was with

his people and they were unified in taking out the enemy he had victory,
but as soon as the enemy isolated him, he began expressing his desire to
just die! He also exaggerated about how he was the “only” one left out of
God’s people. God reassured him that there were still 7000 people left
that didn't bow down to the idolatry Israel had fallen into. (1 Kings
19:18)
This is why the enemy wants to get you alone—to feel like you’re the
“only” one going through this, you’re the “only” one suffering. Then you
begin to exaggerate your situation, even though God took you through
your biggest battles and you knew you were not alone. You end up
running from the lie of the enemy because he has isolated you and such
despair has set it that you no longer even want to be around people that
can encourage you and lift you up! Because of this, like Elijah we
sometimes feel like giving up and saying well we might as well die! We
give up hope.
Another Example is King David. One time while David was king of
Israel, he stayed home from a battle instead of leading his army. Kings
were supposed to be on the battle field with their men. David felt like his
men could take care of the battle, and besides he wanted to be lazy and
he slept in that day. The enemy got him by himself, and led David out
onto the balcony of his palace where he saw a woman named Bathsheba
taking a bath. The enemy got him isolated! David fell for the lust of the
eye and ended up committing adultery and even had Bathsheba’s
husband Uriah murdered to cover up his sin. (2 Samuel 11)
We find out through the prophet Nathan that David wasn't alone in the
spirit realm; the enemy was there with him! The prophet illustrates God’s
point about how he feels about David’s sinful actions. Nathan uses a
story about a man that had many sheep and was rich, but took a poor
man’s one and only sheep that he loved and cared for to prepare it for a
“visitor” that visited this rich man. Who was the visitor? The enemy!
David is angry about this injustice, and declares that the rich man
deserves to die. Nathan, driving home God’s truth, tells David he is the
rich man in the story! (2 Samuel 12) The prophet continues the word of
the Lord to David; this is what he says:
“Nathan then said to David, "You are the man! Thus says the LORD God
of Israel, 'It is I who anointed you king over Israel and it is I who
delivered you from the hand of Saul. I also gave you your master's house
and your master's wives into your care, and I gave you the house of
Israel and Judah; and if that had been too little, I would have added to
you many more things like these! Why have you despised the word of the

LORD by doing evil in His sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite
with the sword, have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him
with the sword of the sons of Ammon. Now therefore, the sword shall
never depart from your house, because you have despised Me and have
taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.'”2 Samuel 12:7-10
NASB
This all started when isolation and laziness came into David’s life. David
condemns himself, hurts his people, loses the first baby that he has with
Bathsheba, and because he had blood on his hands due to the murder of
Uriah he was not able to build the temple! (1 Chronicles 28:3) How did it
all start? The isolation trap!
Don’t allow the enemy to come and “visit” you and cause you to be
isolated. Wake up to it and realize the trap of the enemy!
Jonah was just another person caught in the isolation trap and because of
this he experienced many negative things he didn't have to.
Look at these Bible verses about the importance and benefits of staying
connected to fellow believers...
"Again I say to you, that if two of you agree on earth about anything that
they may ask, it shall be done for them by My Father who is in heaven.
For where two or three have gathered together in My name, I am there in
their midst.” Matthew 18:19-20 NASB
“Two are better than one because they have a good return for their labor.
For if either of them falls, the one will lift up his companion. But woe to
the one who falls when there is not another to lift him up. Furthermore, if
two lie down together they keep warm, but how can one be warm alone?
And if one can overpower him who is alone, two can resist him. A cord of
three strands is not quickly torn apart.” Ecclesiastes 4:9-12 NASB
“And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good
deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of
some, but encouraging one another; and all the more as you see the day
drawing near.” Hebrews 10:24-25 NASB
You can see how these scriptures show us that it is very important to
have fellowship and relationships with people of faith to strengthen our
own faith and help our walk with Christ. So don't allow the enemy to
make you fall for the isolation trap. Get out, stay out, and help others get
out by accepting them for who they are and showing them the love of
Christ.
I was in a certain city ministering about Jonah. I was talking about all the

information that’s in this book, like when you’re running from God you
will start fighting against God, grow bitter, become depressed and
isolated, and go through unnecessary storms.
After the altar call a person came up to me and said, “Pastor, you don't
know how bad I needed to hear this message.” She said for three days
I've been depressed, mad at everyone, not wanting to be around anyone,
and staying in my room in the dark with a knife wanting to kill myself!
Then she said, “But now I know it’s the enemy and I will stop and do
what God wants me to do!” God used that preaching to break her free
from the isolation trap!
See, we think it’s just that we don’t want to be around anyone. You might
find yourself saying, “I just want to be alone for a little bit and not deal
with anything.” Or we may say “Everyone’s fake—I’d rather just do my
own thing.” But what you need to understand is the enemy is whispering
that in our ear to get us trapped!
If you are isolated, you need to get connected to the body of Christ and
get under a man of God that can pour into you, and people of God that
will care for you. Don’t allow the enemy to trick you into falling into the
isolation trap!
Stop allowing the enemy to isolate you, because as we found out it can
destroy us and the people around us that we love.
Do you know someone that’s isolated? Go encourage them—call them to
a fellowship dinner or invite them to just hang out. Go to them and show
them what this chapter says. In doing this you can rescue them from the
isolation trap. Don't give up on them! Why? Because Jesus never gave up
on you!
When I was in Israel in 2018 we went to a location where Jesus was
placed in a pit for the night before they put him on trial. I was in this pit
—it is cold, dark, with no windows, and you feel all alone with no hope.
The psalmist prophesies the Messiah’s thoughts and prayer regarding his
time in this pit. All of Psalms 88 has this prayer but here’s just some of it:
“I am as good as dead, like a strong man with no strength left. They have
left me among the dead, and I lie like a corpse in a grave. I am forgotten,
cut off from your care. You have thrown me into the lowest pit, into the
darkest depths. Your anger weighs me down; with wave after wave you
have engulfed me. Interlude You have driven my friends away by making
me repulsive to them. I am in a trap with no way of escape.” Psalms
88:4-8 NLT (emphasis mine)

Jesus was in the isolation trap of the enemy during the passion of Christ.
Why? So you will never have to be! He did it for you so you can be set
free of the pity party and be connected to Him and His fellow believers
in Jesus’ name. The trap has been open—it’s time for you get out!