

Chapter 6: Hell? No, Let Go!
I was initially going to incorporate this information in the previous
chapter, but I feel this is a specific word that deserves its own chapter. I
want to talk about going through what people sometimes refer to as a
“hell experience.” This goes beyond an unnecessary storm; this is where
you’re drowning from the storm and all hell is breaking loose around you
and it causes you to cry out to God like never before. Many times people
have to go a through a breaking of self in order for them to come to their
senses. This is the case with Jonah.
“Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish's belly, And
said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord, and he heard me;
out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice. For thou
hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas; and the floods
compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves passed over me. Then
I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again toward thy holy
temple. The waters compassed me about, even to the soul: the depth
closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head. I went
down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her bars was about
me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption, O Lord my
God.” Jonah 2:1-6 KJV
We all have heard the stories of people who had to experience jail in
order to come to their freedom in Christ. A sickness came upon them or
their family member and then they experienced the healing power of
Jesus for their souls. Maybe the loss of a loved one to cause them to draw
closer to God to experience true life in Christ. Or maybe a family hurt by
a child that has rebelled, or by unfaithfulness in the marriage, to
experience the true faithfulness of Jesus.
The Bible says:
“Then the Lord appeared to Solomon in the night and said to him: "I
have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for myself as a house
of sacrifice. When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or
command the locust to devour the land, or send pestilence among my
people, if my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and
pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear
from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Now my eyes
will be open and my ears attentive to the prayer that is made in this
place.” 2 Chronicles 7:12-15 ESV

This verse shows us that God allows what we have to be taken from us—
the locusts are commanded to devour the land. God will sometimes even
stop his blessings—the rain—and even allow sickness or pestilence to
come upon us! Why would a loving God want to do that to His people?
To give them a wake up call here on earth so they wont have to face true
hell for all eternity! The next verse says, essentially, “If my people call
upon me, then I will hear, heal and restore!”
This is what Jonah did; he cried out to the Lord because of “his
affliction,” not because he felt like it. However, he had to experience that
which he referred to as hell. The original Hebrew definition is Sheol,
defined as follows: sheol, underworld, grave, hell, hades, or the world of
the dead. It is a pit, a place without praise, a place where the wicked are
sent, a devastating storm.
If you noticed it took him three days to come to his senses. Talk about
stubborn—many people think that his skin was bleached white because
of all the acid in the stomach of the fish. So think about this; he just went
through a storm, and now he gets swallowed by a great fish. Many
people believe it was a whale. It’s hot and smelly, and acid is burning
your skin, while water keeps coming in and out of the stomach of the fish
and each time you almost drown. He's tired, weary, exhausted, can't fight
off sleep any longer, and the pressure of being deep down in the depths
of the sea is now making him delirious. He begins to realize if he dies,
not only is he going through a hell of an experience, but he just might
enter into hell if he dies. All this and more is going on for three days and
he finally comes to understand you can't beat God!
In desperation, he calls out unto God because of his affliction and says:
“As my life was slipping away, I remembered the Lord. And my earnest
prayer went out to you in your holy Temple. Those who worship false
gods turn their backs on all God’s mercies. But I will offer sacrifices to
you with songs of praise, and I will fulfill all my vows. For my salvation
comes from the Lord alone.” Then the Lord ordered the fish to spit Jonah
out onto the beach.” Jonah 2:7-10 NLT
He remembered Jehovah! Isn't it time for us to do the same? Isn't it time
that we remember that when we confessed Christ as Lord that
automatically made us His servants! God wants us to serve Him in the
way He wants, not how we want. We cannot pick and choose the things
we want to obey and then say no to the things we don’t want to do. Jonah
learned that the hard way, and so do the people that are not willing to
obey the Lord in whatever He has chosen for them to do. We need to say

whatever He has called us to say and go wherever He has called us to go!
He realized that if he held on to his stubborn, rebellious, and bitter ways
he would eventually have died in his rebellion. God would have still
gotten His way because God could have used someone else.
He says something that really made me think. He said, “Those who hold
on to lying vanities, or idols forsake their own mercy!”
Like Jonah, if we hold on to the empty lies of the enemy, and the idols—
which are anything or anyone we put before God—we forsake God’s
grace and the mercy He died for us to have! It’s not that God leaves us,
but it’s that we leave God; we forsake Him! The prophet Isaiah teaches
us how sinful choices bind us in our iniquity and we forsake our God.
“Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers,
children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the Lord, they have
provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away
backward.”Isaiah 1:4 KJV
Jonah was a man of God who knew the word of God but ran away from
God. Why? He was bitter and wanted them to perish, because he felt they
needed judgment instead of mercy! When he finally realized he couldn't
hold on to it anymore he gave us an amazing revelation. If we hold onto
the things God has commanded us to let go of, we will end up living a
life of rebellion against God. When we are not willing to change then we
forsake grace and mercy—it doesn’t forsake us! We make the decision to
walk away and leave!
“But I have this against you, that you have left your first love. Therefore
remember from where you have fallen, and repent and do the deeds you
did at first; or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand
out of its place-unless you repent.” Revelation 2:4-5 NASB
When you truly understand what God has done for you and the grace He
has given you, it changes you. Grace is something we didn't deserve but
was given to us anyway by Jesus. We didn't deserve heaven, we didn't
deserve a second chance, we didn't deserve the ultimate sacrifice of the
Son of God, and we didn't deserve to be able to serve Jesus, but it was
given to us anyway!
Mercy is stopping the punishment we deserve because of what we all
have done. We did deserve death, hell, and the grave. We did deserve the
lashes on our backs and the cross that Jesus took for us. Jesus loved us so
much that He gave us the grace we didn't deserve and stopped the hell we
did deserve. That’s mercy!

Why would you not want to serve Jesus? Once you truly understand
mercy and grace would you actually want to walk away? Look what the
Bible says grace teaches us.
“For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,
Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live
soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world; Looking for that
blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our
Saviour Jesus Christ; Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us
from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of
good works. These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all
authority. Let no man despise thee.” Titus 2:11-15 KJV
Grace is also a gift that we receive and that we should give others as
well.
“For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is
the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his
workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath
before ordained that we should walk in them.” Ephesians 2:8-10 KJV
Because it’s a free gift and because it has been given to us at the cost of
the blood of God’s Son Jesus, it teaches us to turn away from sin rather
than turning away from the Son! It teaches us to turn away from
ungodliness, not turn away from Godliness. It teaches us to turn away
from lust, not turn to lust. It teaches us to turn to righteousness, not turn
to unrighteousness. It teaches us to live soberly, not turn to drunkenness!
Grace should teach you to walk away from hell and walk towards
heaven!
Jonah realized this after a hell experience in the fish. This is why he said,
“But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay
that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord.” Jonah 2:9 KJV
When Jonah decided to let go of the lying vanities and the idols he was
holding onto, look what happened: “And the Lord spake unto the fish,
and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land” (Jonah 2:10 KJV). That
means as soon as Jonah let his rebellious attitude go, God commanded
the fish to let Him go!
Instead of hanging onto the things that bring God’s judgment, anger, and
discipline—painful positions that will eventually lead to a breaking point
—wouldn't it be better to just let it go? So many people wait until
they’re in a situation like Jonah, with all hell breaking out around them.
Then they make God their last resort when God should have been their

first priority!
I believe we all have done this a time or two in our life but we should not
live a lifestyle like this. So often we allow the thing we hold onto to
create stubbornness in our heart until we start justifying, excusing, and
blaming everyone else for how our life has ended up and for the person
we have become.
Let’s learn a lesson from this chapter of Jonah’s life, that things that hold
us from God like the fish held Jonah will not let us go until we let our
rebellious attitude go. Decide today to let it go and you'll see how it will
allow a release in your life and freedom to serve the Lord like never
before so you can get back to what you vowed. 
To serve the Lord because He first served us. Think about it today, do you want to 
go
through a breaking in such a way you feel like all hell is breaking out
around you and your house? Of course not, so let’s have an attitude that
says: hell? no, I'm letting go!