

Chapter 8
Application Applied
In this chapter I want to teach you how to bring people from hearing to applying 
what you have shared with them. A lot of ministers minister a word without 
teaching the people how to apply the information they have given them. Like if I 
was to say to a person, “If you give in to the devil you’re going to live a miserable 
life and eventually go to hell.” That’s true but we should show them how not to give 
in to the enemy and how to live a blessed life and how to make it to heaven.
In this chapter this is what you’re about to learn, because when you teach them 
how to apply the information, and they do what you have taught them then they 
will see Jesus manifest in their lives because application brings manifestation!
Let me share with you why this is so important. I evangelize and go to a lot of 
churches to minister and at one of these churches I was doing a revival service. 
After I was done preaching one of the people from the crowd came to me and was 
encouraging me about the word that I just ministered. So I told him you should 
really get involved at the church; I said this because he was visiting that church for 
the second time. He began to explain the reason why he didn’t attend the church 
is because he felt like the pastor doesn’t teach them how to apply the information. 
Then he said how he comes to hear me preach when I’m in that city because I 
teach people how to apply the information that is ministered. I was encouraged 
and hurt at the same time. I began to think about how many people aren’t going to 
church because of this same reason. Ask yourself this, do you teach people how to 
apply the information you have given them? If not let’s find out how.
Let’s look at a few stories we have already discussed in the book and learn how to 
connect the application points. Think about the story of Lazarus in John chapter 
eleven. How would we teach them to live a resurrected life based on that text? The 
application can be connected like this:
To   l i ve   a   re s u r re c t e d   l i fe   a n d   fo r   G o d   t o   r a i s e   u p   t h e   d e a d   t h i n g s   o f   yo u r   l i fe   yo u  
have to:
1. Don’t just believe He can do it for others but believe He can do it for you! Talk 
about truly believing and having faith that Jesus can do it for them.
2. Remove the stone. Talk about how the stone represents the sin, stubbornness, 
rebelliousness and pride in their lives. And how they have to willingly get rid of it 
because that is what’s stopping the resurrection from happening.
3. Listen to and apply His Word. When Jesus said Lazarus arise Lazarus arose. 
Basically teach about how important God’s Word is and how we have to read it and 

apply it because His Word is like a hammer that breaks the rock.
Another example is the man at the pool of Bethesda in John chapter five. To show 
the people how to get up out of their problems and how to stay out of their 
problems you can teach them how to apply it by doing the following:
1. Rise up. Repent. Explain how you have to make a decision to repent and get up 
out of the mess you’re in.
2. Walk. Start walking in His Word. Explain the importance of the Word and how it 
teaches us how to walk like Jesus wants us to walk. And then explain how we have 
to start walking by faith no matter what happens.
3. Take up your mat. Explain the mat was ugly, disgusting; it was with him for a 
long time. This represents not allowing your problems to control you but you 
control them by the power of the Holy Spirit.
Look at the story of Joseph in the book of Genesis chapters 37–50. Joseph’s story 
was longer than any other story in the Old Testament. If you were to preach a 
sermon or a series of sermons like I did a few years ago on the story of Joseph, 
you will see a lot of application points you can take out of Joseph’s story, but what 
I want to do is show you five major points I have seen in this awesome story full of 
faith and endurance.
1. Don’t let go of your dreams/visions. Joseph remembered the dream no matter 
what he went through.
2. Don’t complain or blame. Joseph could have done that; he could have blamed 
his brothers and a lot of other people in the story but he chose to forgive and let 
go.
3. Make the best out of your situation. Joseph was always in second everywhere 
he ended up; in his father’s house he became second. In Potiphar’s house he 
became second. In the jail house he became second and in Pharaoh’s house he 
became second. The number two means “witness”. When you make the best out of 
your situation people will see your witness for God.
4. Always help people no matter what. He always helped people and was good at 
it. He helped his father. He helped his brothers before and after they tried to hurt 
him. He helped Potiphar. He helped the jailer and the people in jail, even though 
they didn’t appreciate it. He helped the pharaoh and the people of Egypt and he 
was eventually used to save and help millions of people through the famine.
5. Put God in front. Joseph always told people he couldn’t interpret dreams, only 

God could. He forgave his brothers and told them, “What you meant for evil God 
meant for Good.” He told pharaoh that God was showing him what was about to 
take place.
When you do these things you will be moved from the pit to the palace. Just 
remember through it all, don’t have a pity party have a praise party in advance.
The final example is a sermon outline based on a sermon I ministered. The sermon 
was called “Living on the Edge.” I want to give this example for you to see how you 
make the transition from the text to the application part and then the closing.
Living on the Edge
Acts 20:7–12: On the first day of the week we came together to break bread. Paul 
spoke to the people and, because he intended to leave the next day, kept on 
talking until midnight. There were many lamps in the upstairs room where we were 
meeting. Seated in a window was a young man named Eutychus, who was sinking 
into a deep sleep as Paul talked on and on. When he was sound asleep, he fell to 
the ground from the third story and was picked up dead. Paul went down, threw 
himself on the young man and put his arms around him. “Don’t be alarmed,” he 
said. “He’s alive!” Then he went upstairs again and broke bread and ate. After 
talking until daylight, he left. The people took the young man home alive and were 
greatly comforted.
If you notice they started on the Lord’s day but shortly after midnight, early 
Monday morning, he fell! This is what happens to a lot of people because they are 
living on the edge, meaning one foot in the church and one foot in the world.
Eutychus = fortunate.
1) to hit the mark 2) to be well off, fare well, prosper, acting well, well done, good
God has a plan for you. He wants you to prosper and He wants you to hit the mark 
of his Word and blessing every time and He wants to tell you, “Well done my good 
and faithful servant,” when you enter Heaven! But the devil wants you to fail and 
forsake everything God has planned for you. The definition for sin means to miss 
the mark. How does the enemy get you to mess up the plan and blessings God has 
for you? In this text you notice a couple things.
1. This happens because one eye is on the world and one eye is on Christ; a part of 
the body is in the world and one part is in church. Living on the edge!
2. We allow the enemy to take over when we get lazy and comfortable.
The word sleep is the Greek word transliterated hypnos.
Pronunciation: hü’p-nos
It’s our English word hypnosis: The induction of a state of consciousness in which 

a person apparently loses the power of voluntary action and is highly responsive to 
suggestion or direction.
We get like this when we are disobedient to God. Ephesians chapter two shows us 
this:
“Once you were dead because of your disobedience and your many sins. You used 
to live in sin, just like the rest of the world, obeying the devil—the commander of 
the powers in the unseen world. He is the spirit at work in the hearts of those who 
refuse to obey God.” (Ephesians 2:1–2 NLT)
How do we get out of living a dead life?
Here comes the application!
1. Recognize you’ve been deceived. Galatians 3:1–4 “You foolish Galatians! Who 
has bewitched you? Before your very eyes Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as 
crucified. I would like to learn just one thing from you: Did you receive the Spirit by 
observing the law, or by believing what you heard? Are you so foolish? After 
beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort?”
2. Wake up out of your sin. Ephesians 5:13–16: “But everything exposed by the 
light becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. This is why it is 
said: ‘Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.’ Be very 
careful, then, how you live—not as unwise but as wise, making the most of every 
opportunity, because the days are evil.” Revelation 3:1–3: “I know your works, that 
you have a name that you are alive, but you are dead. Be watchful, and strengthen 
the things which remain, that are ready to die... Remember therefore how you have 
received and heard; hold fast and repent...”
3. Live a resurrected life! As soon as he was raised from the dead he went right 
back into the house. Explain how we need to get back in the word, fellowship, get 
off the edge.
When you do this people will be blessed by your life! Then we like Paul can help 
raise up other people who have died spiritually. The Bible says in verse 10, Paul 
went down, threw himself on the young man and put his arms around him. “Don’t 
be alarmed,” he said. “He’s alive!”
The word threw. The root word of that Greek word means to comfort.
The word comforted means:
1) to receive consolation, be comforted
2) to encourage, strengthen
3) exhorting and comforting and encouraging
4) to instruct, teach

5) to descend from a higher place to a lower
6) to fall (either from or upon)
Meaning we can be a people who can comfort, encourage, strengthen, and teach 
others to rise up and stop living on the edge. Don’t think of yourselves as too great 
to get out of your position and help those that are dying. James 5:19–20: “My 
brothers, if one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring 
him back, remember this: Whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will 
save him from death and cover over a multitude of sin.”
Get off the edge and get in—
The Word
Fellowship
Start living a resurrected life
Get off the edge and you can help others do the same. Let’s pray.
Altar call.
Hopefully that helps you to understand that in every text or story in the Bible you 
can pull out application points that people can apply. We have to give them a way 
out. Give them some way of applying the information given to them. If you’re a 
teacher go through some of your old teachings and see if you can find some 
application points you can pull out and apply.
When you do give application points, a good number is usually three to five 
application points so the people can remember. One of the biggest application 
points you can make is the importance of the Word of God. This point is in every 
sermon I have preached. The people need to get in the Word because the Word is 
the most important thing for their lives because they need to learn how to apply 
the Word out of church not just in church.
In every sermon you preach remember to add application, because application 
brings manifestation!