

Chapter 4: WIN
In this section we will discuss the importance of carrying out the church's mission
—the great commission! It's time for the church to Win souls for the Kingdom of 
God.
The Great Commission: Our Foundation
Matthew 28:18-20
Jesus came and told his disciples, "I have been given all authority in heaven and 
on earth. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the 
name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to 
obey all the commands I have given you. And be sure of this: I am with you always, 
even to the end of the age."
We all know that verse by heart but are we doing it?
The Problem: Churches Growing Without Evangelizing
I read an article about evangelism and it said the following statement...
"Some churches are growing. Others are adding members without significant 
numerical growth. But many in both categories are growing at the expense of other 
churches. Some may be reaching unchurched Christians. That's good, but that's 
not evangelism. We can fool ourselves into thinking we are evangelistic when we 
are simply recycling the saints."
We are seeing more than ever that the world is winning more people than the 
church. This is a problem!
Startling Statistics
I read some very interesting statistics on a website about missionaries. You can 
find a lot of these statistics at www.aboutmissions.org:
Despite Christ's command to evangelize, 67% of all humans from AD 30 to the 
present day have never even heard the name of Jesus Christ. (Baxter 2007, 12)
91% of all Christian outreach/evangelism does not target non-Christians, but 
targets other Christians.** (Baxter 2007, 12)

In the last 40 years, over 1 billion people have died who have never heard of Jesus, 
and around 30 million people this year will perish without hearing the message of 
salvation. (Baxter 2007, 12)
70,000+ people die every day in the unreached world without Jesus.** (Baxter 
2007, 12)
The Solution: Following the Acts 2 Model
I believe if we do what we have discussed in the previous pages of this teaching of 
growth like leadership classes, challenging our people to read daily, discipleship 
programs, giving in time-talents and treasure, meeting with our people on a one-
to-one and group fellowship meals and obeying above all, then God will add to the 
church His people and open up new doors of favor to go out and bring people to 
Christ and His church!
Look what the Bible says in the book of Acts chapter two. You will see what we 
learned is what the disciples did! Then and only then God added to the church...
"Growing ourselves, to Grow others, to Grow the Kingdom"
Acts 2:42-47
All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to fellowship, 
and to sharing in meals (including the Lord's Supper), and to prayer.
A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many 
miraculous signs and wonders. And all the believers met together in one place and 
shared everything they had. They sold their property and possessions and shared 
the money with those in need. They worshiped together at the Temple each day, 
met in homes for the Lord's Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and 
generosity—all the while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people. 
And each day the Lord added to their fellowship those who were being saved.
It's Time to GO!
That word "go" in Matthew 28, is a verb not a noun word. A verb is an action 
meaning. It's time we start acting on what God has said to do. Jesus' last word 
before He ascended into heaven should be the first thing we, the church should 
do!
Faith Without Action Is Dead
James 2:14-20 (NKJV)

What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have 
works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily 
food, and one of you says to them, "Depart in peace, be warmed and filled," but 
you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it 
profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.
But someone will say, "You have faith, and I have works." Show me your faith 
without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that 
there is one God. You do well. Even the demons believe—and tremble! But do you 
want to know, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead?
What Can We Do to Put Faith in Action?
Practical Ideas to Help You Win People Over to The Lord
1. Call 3 and Visit 2
We can start with something I call the 3-2 rule. It's something God showed me to 
do every day: call three people that haven't been in church to check up on and 
share a word and prayer. Also every day visit at least two houses of people that 
haven't been in church or are not in church. I usually go to another house to check 
up and encourage those who have been faithful to just let them know I appreciate 
them.
2. Outreach Programs
Look for opportunities to impact the cities around you. Start by getting connected 
to people in the area that have influence over a few people and then start doing 
Bible studies with them and give them the vision of what you're planning. Then 
have them help you evangelize and bring people. Schedule a GO date you will start 
the outreach and then start advertising—give at least a month notice. Even if you 
don't establish a church in this city you would have at least ministered the gospel 
and it might add members to your church. Also you can even pray about doing 
outreaches further from your city, let The Spirit lead.
3. Schedule Special Events
You can put on a golf tournament, a baseball game, a BBQ in the park, Food and 
Fellowship in the church and put on biblical plays. These types of events attract 
non-believers, because really they're coming to have fun, but during the event you 
can show them love and after the event have a time of worship and Word. Then 
check up on them and invite them to church. Stay on them!
4. Make Sure the Church is a Church of Love!
One of the biggest complaints is the servants and people who represent the 
church do not show love and make people comfortable. Sometimes the people 

love the Pastor but hate the servants. And because of this people don't come to 
the church and most importantly they don't come to God! Look at this true story to 
illustrate the point further...
Gandhi's Story
Gandhi says that one Sunday morning, Gandhi decided he would visit one of the 
Christian churches in Calcutta, India. Upon seeking entrance to the church 
sanctuary, he was stopped at the door by the ushers. He was told he was not 
welcome, nor would he be permitted to attend this particular church as it was for 
high-caste Indians and whites only. He was neither high caste nor white. Because 
of the rejection, the Mahatma turned his back on Christianity.
With this act, Gandhi rejected the Christian faith, never again to consider the 
claims of Christ. He was turned off by the sin of segregation practiced by the 
church. It was because of this experience that Gandhi later declared, "I'd be a 
Christian if it were not for the Christians."
Because of this one usher's bad example of Christ this man Gandhi turned away 
from Christ and His church. Now millions of people are gonna go to hell following 
Gandhi's Buddhism beliefs!
Let's learn from this story and teach the servants to show love, shake hands and 
welcome everyone the same way because the Bible says...
Matthew 18:6 - "But if you cause one of these little ones who trusts in me to fall 
into sin, it would be better for you to have a large millstone tied around your neck 
and be drowned in the depths of the sea."
5. Change It Up
I read somewhere, where it said that sheep never eat in the same place twice—
that's why they are always grazing in the field. They have to eat in different places 
every time they eat. They're always looking for something new! The church can 
get very religious sometimes. That's why people leave the church cause they get 
bored. Let's be sensitive to The Spirit's leading and let's be shepherds that help 
the sheep eat by changing it up. Invite different ministers, have a Worship service 
with prayer and intercession, think of doing things outside the "box".
6. Schedule 3 Sunday Events
I was in a leadership class with Bryan Cutshall and he said that 85% of people that 
come for Sunday service 3 times in a row end up becoming members of the 
church. A great time to do this is over the Easter holiday. On Palm Sunday do a 
baptism, Easter do a Special baby dedication service then the Sunday after Easter 
do a food and fellowship service. Remember to announce these special services a 
month before to get people to invite their families. These types of services will 

always attract non-believers because they will come and support their families 
that are getting baptized and dedicated.
others, to Grow the Kingdom"
The Great Commission is not a suggestion—it's a command. Jesus' final words 
before ascending to heaven should be our first priority as the church. We cannot 
afford to be comfortable while 70,000+ people die every day without hearing the 
name of Jesus.
The statistics are sobering: 91% of Christian outreach targets other Christians 
instead of the lost. We're recycling saints instead of rescuing souls. But there's 
hope! When we follow the Acts 2 model—devoting ourselves to teaching, 
fellowship, prayer, and genuine love—God adds to the church those who are being 
saved.
It's time to move from knowing the Great Commission to doing it. Faith without 
works is dead. Whether through the 3-2 rule, outreach programs, special events, 
or simply showing Christ's love to every person who walks through our doors, we 
must GO!
Remember Gandhi's tragic story—one usher's lack of love turned away a man 
whose influence affected millions. Let's ensure that our churches are known for 
love, not legalism; for welcoming, not walls; for reaching out, not turning away.
The harvest is ready. The workers are few. But with Christ's authority backing us 
and His presence with us always, we can and must WIN souls for the Kingdom of 
God.
"Growing ourselves, to Grow others, to Grow the Kingdom"