

Grow Chapter 3 OBEY
In this section we will cover the importance of Obeying God and teaching others to 
do the same.
The Consequence of Disobedience: King Saul's Fall
1 Samuel 15:10-23
Then the LORD said to Samuel, "I am sorry that I ever made Saul king, for he has 
not been loyal to me and has refused to obey my command." Samuel was so 
deeply moved when he heard this that he cried out to the LORD all night.
Early the next morning Samuel went to find Saul. Someone told him, "Saul went to 
the town of Carmel to set up a monument to himself; then he went on to Gilgal."
When Samuel finally found him, Saul greeted him cheerfully. "May the LORD bless 
you," he said. "I have carried out the LORD's command!"
"Then what is all the bleating of sheep and goats and the lowing of cattle I hear?" 
Samuel demanded.
"It's true that the army spared the best of the sheep, goats, and cattle," Saul 
admitted. "But they are going to sacrifice them to the LORD your God. We have 
destroyed everything else."
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stop! Listen to what the LORD told me last night!"
"What did he tell you?" Saul asked.
And Samuel told him, "Although you may think little of yourself, are you not the 
leader of the tribes of Israel? The LORD has anointed you king of Israel. And the 
LORD sent you on a mission and told you, 'Go and completely destroy the sinners, 
the Amalekites, until they are all dead.' Why haven't you obeyed the LORD? Why 
did you rush for the plunder and do what was evil in the LORD's sight?"
"But I did obey the LORD," Saul insisted. "I carried out the mission he gave me. I 
brought back King Agag, but I destroyed everyone else. Then my troops brought in 
the best of the sheep, goats, cattle, and plunder to sacrifice to the LORD your God 
in Gilgal."
But Samuel replied,

"What is more pleasing to the LORD:
your burnt offerings and sacrifices
or your obedience to his voice?
Listen! Obedience is better than sacrifice,
and submission is better than offering the fat of rams.
Rebellion is as sinful as witchcraft,
and stubbornness as bad as worshiping idols.
So because you have rejected the command of the LORD,
he has rejected you as king."
What is the bleating that's stopping your blessing?
"Then what is all the bleating of sheep and goats and the lowing of cattle I hear?" 
Samuel demanded.
Discussion Point: Saul's Disobedience and Love to Please the People
1 Samuel 15:30-31 - Saul said, "I did sin, but please honor me in front of the 
leaders of the army and the people of Israel. Come back with me, so I can worship 
the Lord your God." Samuel followed Saul back, and Saul worshiped the Lord.
"Growing ourselves, to Grow others, to Grow the Kingdom"
Just because you worship God does not mean it's accepted, if you have 
disobedience in your life and care about what the people think more than God!
David's Mistake: The Wrong Way to Bring God's Presence
King David takes the Kingdom after Saul and one of the first things he does is 
bring the ark of the covenant back to Jerusalem. But something happens in the 
midst of what looked like one of the greatest revivals in Israel with 30,000 people 
in attendance and every instrument known at that time playing accompanied by 
singing and dancing. It all came to a stop because of disobedience which led to 
someone's death!
2 Samuel 6:6-11
But when they arrived at the threshing floor of Nacon, the oxen stumbled, and 
Uzzah reached out his hand and steadied the Ark of God. Then the LORD's anger 
was aroused against Uzzah, and God struck him dead because of this. So Uzzah 
died right there beside the Ark of God.
David was angry because the LORD's anger had burst out against Uzzah. He 
named that place Perez-uzzah (which means "to burst out against Uzzah"), as it is 

still called today.
David was now afraid of the LORD, and he asked, "How can I ever bring the Ark of 
the LORD back into my care?" So David decided not to move the Ark of the LORD 
into the City of David. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-edom of Gath. The 
Ark of the LORD remained there in Obed-edom's house for three months, and the 
LORD blessed Obed-edom and his entire household.
Why did God allow this?
The Bible says that the ark of the covenant was supposed to be carried by the 
poles that were attached to the ark and then placed on the shoulders of the priest 
(Deuteronomy 10:8). No one was supposed to touch the ark of the covenant 
because it represents God's Glory and presence.
Why did David carry the ark on a new cart? The Bible says the Philistines when 
they stole the ark, years before they placed the ark on a cart (1 Samuel 6:10). 
David tried to bring God's presence in the city the world's way!
When we try to change our cities with God's Presence we have to do it God's way, 
not the world's way. Because it does not matter how small or how big the 
congregation and it's not how many servants you have and how great your choir is, 
if you are not obeying God and His word we will experience the same thing David 
did:
Disappointment
Anger
Frustration
Hurt
Also the people will die spiritually, celebration and rejoicing will cease and the 
blessing of God's presence will go to another house (church/Obed-edom).
"Growing ourselves, to Grow others, to Grow the Kingdom"
Also remember this happened before King David's adulterous affair and before he 
murdered and fell into pride! Meaning small disobedience is still disobedience!
David's Redemption: Learning from Mistakes
David went home, learned from his mistakes, found out through the Word what he 
did wrong and corrected it.
2 Samuel 6:12-15

Then King David was told, "The LORD has blessed Obed-edom's household and 
everything he has because of the Ark of God." So David went there and brought 
the Ark of God from the house of Obed-edom to the City of David with a great 
celebration. After the men who were carrying the Ark of the LORD had gone six 
steps, David sacrificed a bull and a fattened calf. And David danced before the 
LORD with all his might, wearing a priestly garment. So David and all the people of 
Israel brought up the Ark of the LORD with shouts of joy and the blowing of rams' 
horns.
That's why we are here today... To learn what's wrong, to correct the wrong and to 
go back and lead others to do the same. So together we will rejoice again with 
shouts of Joy!
Biblical Commands for Obedience
Jeremiah 42:6 - "Whether we like it or not, we will obey the LORD our God to 
whom we are sending you with our plea. For if we obey him, everything will turn 
out well for us."
Jeremiah 7:23 - "But this is what I commanded them, saying, 'Obey My voice, and 
I will be your God, and you will be My people; and you will walk in all the way which 
I command you, that it may be well with you.'"
Exodus 23:21 - "Be on your guard before him and obey his voice; do not be 
rebellious toward him, for he will not pardon your transgression, since My name is 
in him."
2 Corinthians 10:5 - "We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised 
up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the 
obedience of Christ."
Te a c h i n g   O t h e r s   t o   O b e y
We are also taught to teach others to obey as well.
Romans 1:5 - "Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring 
about the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles for His name's sake."
Joshua 1:7-8 - "Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the 
instructions Moses gave you. Do not deviate from them, turning either to the right 
or to the left. Then you will be successful in everything you do. Study this Book of 
Instruction continually. Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey 
everything written in it. Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do."

Practical Ideas to Help You Obey
1. Apply God's Word No Matter What Whatever situation you find yourself in 
whether it be trial, test or temptation do what the Word says no matter what! Think 
on the word. (If you don't know what it says in regards to your situation, find out 
and obey it!)
2. Don't Set Yourself Up to Fail
If you know you're struggling in a certain area, don't allow yourself to be tempted 
by going there, watching it, listening to it, and hanging out with certain people and 
stay away from certain places.
Romans 13:14 says... "But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision 
for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof". IN SHORT DON'T SET YOURSELF UP TO 
FAIL!
3. Read God's Word Daily
I know we covered this in the last section but I can't stress it enough, because the 
more you read the more you're led to obey that which you have read!
4. Teach Obedience
Don't get so caught up in preaching the people happy you forget to teach them to 
obey God in their daily living. You can do this by incorporating application points in 
your message. (Like if I was teaching people about obeying God I would give them 
the application points I just gave you! 1. Apply God's Word. 2. Don't set yourself up 
to fail. 3. Teach others to obey 4. Read the Word daily)
Conclusion
REMEMBER: OBEDIENCE IS BETTER THAN SACRIFICE, BUT TRULY YOU CAN'T 
HAVE OBEDIENCE IF YOU'RE NOT WILLING TO SACRIFICE OR CRUCIFY THE 
FLESH TO OBEY. BUT IT'S WELL WORTH THE BLESSING SO GET RID OF THE 
BLEATING!