

Chapter 5
The Original Language
In this chapter I want to talk about the power behind the original language. We 
have seen the importance of names and cities, but in this chapter I want to look at 
common words and objects in the Bible we pass up, not realizing that they could 
add so much more application to the sermon. Let’s look at some famous verses 
and some stories in the Bible and learn how to connect them to a sermon.
Jesus said something in Luke chapter 14 that if you didn’t study the word “hate” in 
this text you would have totally ministered this verse wrong. Let’s read: “If anyone 
comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers 
and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple” (Luke 14:26). The 
word hate in the original means to hate, to detest and to love less.
You can say something like this in reference to this verse: “If you do not hate and 
detest the things that your family and friends do in the world you cannot serve 
God. Also, the love you have to have for Jesus should be greater than the love you 
have for your own family and friends. It’s about loving God more than anything else 
and anyone else in this world and when you can say that, you are truly a follower 
and witness of Jesus.”
Jesus said we are to be witnesses for Him in this world; this is our mission. In fact, 
it’s the Great Commission. In Acts 1:8 Jesus said, “But you shall receive power 
when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in 
Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.” The Greek 
word for witness is mär-tüs: a witness, those who after his example have proved 
the strength and genuineness of their faith in Christ by undergoing a violent death. 
It’s where we get our English word for martyr, meaning a person ready to die for 
their beliefs. So in essence when you called yourself a witness for Jesus, you were 
saying you were ready to be locked up, whipped, mocked, persecuted, stoned and 
killed for Jesus! Also, the word “power” in Acts 1:8 is where we get our English 
word dynamite.
You can connect it and say something like this: “The early Christians were ready to 
go through intense persecution and even death for Jesus. They would rather die 
than betray and denounce their belief in Him. The question is, are you ready to 
give up the things that are in your lives that are showing you betray Him in your 
actions and are you ready to not give up on God no matter the trial, tribulation, and 
test? Because you might not have to die physically for Jesus but you definitely 
have to die to the things of the world. If you’re ready to apply this then you’ll be 
ready to be an effective witness for Jesus that demonstrates the explosive, 
atmosphere changing, mountain moving power of the Holy Spirit.”

John 3:16; millions of people know this verse of Scripture by heart. But I guarantee 
only a few have studied it. Let’s read: “For God so loved the world that He gave His 
only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have 
everlasting life” (John 3:16 NKJV). I’ve seen people do weeks of teaching on this 
one verse; as a matter of fact a man by the name of Max Lucado wrote an entire 
book about this famous verse. I encourage you to study this verse more than you 
ever have. What I want to show you in this verse is the Greek word for “believe”, 
and I want you to see the fullness of this word we so easily pass up.
The Bible says even the demons believe there’s a God and they tremble at His 
name (James 2:19). We know they will not have a chance to enter the Kingdom of 
God, so there has to be something more to this text, and that is we can’t just say 
we believe, we actually have to apply what we say we believe. I’ll show you what I 
mean. Let’s look at the original Greek word for the word “believes”.
believes = pisteuō
Pronunciation: pē-styü’-ō
believe, commit unto, commit to (one’s) trust 1, be committed unto 1, be put in 
trust with 1, be commit to one’s trust 1, believer. Also it’s another word for respect.
So in essence it’s basically saying a few things. Here they are:
1. If you stay committed to God without giving up you will be saved.
2. If you entrust God with your life and allow Him to have His way in your life you 
will be saved.
3. If you respect the things of God and respect Him in word, thought, action and 
deed you will be saved.
This Greek word for believe is also found in the book of Romans in the tenth 
chapter and the ninth verse: “that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus 
and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be 
saved.”
You can connect it in a sermon and say something like this: “Now it’s one thing to 
confess your belief in God but it’s an entirely different thing to believe in your 
heart that Jesus is Lord. Because it’s not about just saying it, it’s about showing 
your commitment, trust, and respect towards God in your heart, because God 
looks at the heart!”
Let’s look at a story about the lame man at the pool of Bethesda. I want to show 
you something that I’ve passed over so many times and when I finally checked it 
up it added to the sermon of the lame man at the pool of Bethesda. A guy from our 
church heard the preaching and said to me, “It was the greatest anointed 
preaching I ever heard you preach.”

Let’s look at the story:
“Af t e r   t h i s   t h e re   wa s   a   fe a s t   o f   t h e   J e ws ,   a n d   J e s u s   we n t   u p   t o   J e r u s a l e m .   N ow  
there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew, 
Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of sick people, blind, 
lame, paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down at a 
certain time into the pool and stirred up the water; then whoever stepped in first, 
after the stirring of the water, was made well of whatever disease he had. Now a 
certain man was there who had an infirmity thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw 
him lying there, and knew that he already had been in that condition a long time, 
He said to him, Do you want to be made whole? The sick man answered Him, Sir, I 
have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up; but while I am 
coming, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your bed 
and walk. And immediately the man was made well, took up his bed, and walked” 
(John 5:1–9 NKJV).
Before I tell you the main Greek word let me give you a few good nuggets. The 
number 38 represents slavery. There were five porches, the number five 
represents grace. This is confirmed by the name Bethesda. The word Bethesda 
means “house of mercy”. Also, when I was in Israel I went to this pool. There is no 
more water in this pool, but thank God Jesus is the living water and He can stir up 
the blessing anytime in us!
Jesus asked the man, “Do you want to be made whole?”, representing your entire 
life made right—not just some of it but the whole package. The man responds to 
the question with complaints and excuses. Jesus didn’t ask him why are you not 
healed but do you want to be healed or made whole. Sometimes we can’t hear God 
right because we are negative and bitter about our situations.
Now let’s look at the original word for “infirmity”. The Greek word infirmity is where 
we get our English word anesthesia. Anesthesia does a few things: one, it numbs 
the senses; two, it makes you forget; three, it covers the pain; and four, it puts you 
to sleep.
After finding all that information about the text you can say something like this: 
“The enemy wants you to forget the blessings and the Word of God and he wants 
you to be numb to the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. Because of this we try 
to cover the pain with the things of the world, but we don’t realize we are sleeping 
and dead spiritually. This is why we are in slavery to the things of the devil. But 
God wants to show you grace, so if you’re tired of making excuses and blaming 
people, rise up and wake up, oh sleeper, and let the light of God shine upon you! 
Pick up your mat which represents your problem, because the problem has been 
controlling you long enough—it’s time for you to control your problem! This man 
did and the prodigal son came to his senses and he rose up and came back to 

God. It’s time for you to do the same.”
Let’s look at another famous verse: “But without faith it is impossible to please 
Him, for he who comes to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of 
those who diligently seek Him” (Hebrews 11:6). In this Scripture we find out a few 
things like the requirement to please God is having faith in Him, and having faith in 
God means that we diligently seek Him. When we do this we receive rewards from 
God, whether they be Spiritual, physical, mental, emotional, or financial. We will 
not receive them without diligently seeking Him! Then the question we should ask 
ourselves is are we diligently seeking Him? Let’s find out what the word “diligently” 
meant in the original language.
Pronunciation: ek-zā-te’-ō
Outline of Biblical Usage:
1) to seek out, search for
2) to seek out, i.e. investigate, scrutinize
3) to seek out for one’s self, beg, crave
4) to demand back, require
With this information we can do a four point sermon on this one verse and we can 
say something like this:
If we truly are diligently seeking after God we will do the following things:
1. When we have a problem in our lives we will not handle it our way, we will 
INVESTIGATE what the Bible has to say and when we find the answer to our 
problem in the Bible we will apply the Word of God to that problem. Like if your 
finances are not right the Bible says to tithe, so I will tithe. If your marriage is not 
going well, the Bible says to be one in your marriage, so I will start becoming one 
and submit to God and one another. ETC.
2. When we have questions or if we are in doubt and in need of direction we will 
SEEK God through prayer, the Word and Godly council from the people of God. 
Then when we receive it we will apply it.
3. When a person is hungry for food they usually crave a certain food. If you truly 
are hungry for the things of God you will CRAVE His Word, His presence, and His 
approval.
4. When the enemy comes in and we allow him to take something like our joy, or 
our contentment, we will not just stand there and have a pity party, we will 
DEMAND IT BACK and take back what the enemy took from us!
This is what it means to be diligent, this is what it means to please God, and then 
the blessed rewards will come!
Now let’s look at an object in the Bible that we can investigate. When Moses was 
on the mountain speaking to God, the children of Israel were making a golden calf 
to worship. This is after God told the people not to give in to idolatry, and not to 

make graven images. They didn’t listen because this is exactly what they did, they 
made a golden calf. When Moses came down from the mountain something 
happened.
Exodus 32:19 “So it was, as soon as he came near the camp, that he saw the calf 
and the dancing. So Moses’ anger became hot, and he cast the tablets out of his 
hands and broke them at the foot of the mountain.”
The Hebrew word for calf is ā•ghel. Outline of Biblical usage:
1) calf, bull-calf
Also the root word for this Hebrew word is revolve.
Now with some of the information we have learned about this we can say 
something like this: “When we bow down to the things of the world we break God’s 
laws and we rebel against God. So my question to you is this, what does your 
world revolve around—money, materialism, people, sin, or does it revolve around 
God? If it doesn’t revolve around God it’s time to pick up the broken pieces, give 
them to God, and allow Him to bring you back to Himself because God’s world 
revolves around you” (John 3:16).
As you’ve seen in this chapter and the previous chapters there’s so much in the 
Scriptures if we just study them properly. Whether it be the names of the people, 
the towns, certain words, and even certain objects, you will be amazed what you 
find. Let me share with you what I’ve been taught by a famous minister.
Right now I want you to picture in your mind and think about the two stone tablets 
which we know as the Ten Commandments. Ok now that you thought of them and 
you pictured them in your mind read the following Scripture. This is what 
happened before Moses went down the mountain and saw the people worshiping 
the golden calf.
Exodus 32:14–16 “So the LORD relented from the harm which He said He would do 
to His people. And Moses turned and went down from the mountain, and the two 
tablets of the Testimony were in his hand. The tablets were written on both sides; 
on the one side and on the other they were written. Now the tablets were the work 
of God, and the writing was the writing of God engraved on the tablets.”
Did you catch that? The commandments were written on the front and the back of 
the two stone tablets! We have always seen them in pictures on one side. We have 
passed this very important information up. What does this have to do with 
anything? Think about it like this: don’t just read God’s Word on the top, see 
what’s on the bottom as well. Don’t just look at the front, look at the back. Don’t 
just read it, study it. Don’t just let people tell you what it means because God 
wants to tell you what it means for your life!

The word revelation in the Greek is apokalyptō (ä-po-kä-lü’p-tō): to uncover, lay 
open what has been veiled or covered up—basically it means something that has 
always been there but has been covered with a veil. But then it’s uncovered and 
revealed.
It’s time to start studying the names, cities, objects, and certain words in the Bible 
because when you do you will unlock so much of the Word of God that has always 
been there and always will be there. Always pray and ask God to show you and He 
will guide your eyes, your heart, and mind toward the revelation He wants to show 
you in the Scriptures. This happens when you diligently seek Him. To find out how 
to search the original languages in the Bible, check the resource page in the back 
of this book.