

Chapter 2: Read
In this section we will discuss the importance of a daily devotion, reading program 
and the importance of reading the Bible and leadership books for our personal 
growth to help others do the same.
The following verse is what God told Joshua as he was about to take his leadership 
role to lead the Israelites into the promised land and receive what was promised. If 
we are to lead this generation into the promised land blessing and the promise of 
heaven, we should take the same advice!
Joshua 1:7-8 Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the 
instructions Moses gave you. Do not deviate from them, turning either to the right 
or to the left. Then you will be successful in everything you do. Study this Book of 
Instruction continually. Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey 
everything written in it. Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do.
The following verses show what God told the kings of the Bible to do so that they 
may lead God's people and be good, humble leaders.
Deuteronomy 17:18-20 When he sits on the throne as king, he must copy for 
himself this body of instruction on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priests. 
He must always keep that copy with him and read it daily as long as he lives. That 
way he will learn to fear the LORD his God by obeying all the terms of these 
instructions and decrees. This regular reading will prevent him from becoming 
proud and acting as if he is above his fellow citizens. It will also prevent him from 
turning away from these commands in the smallest way. And it will ensure that he 
and his descendants will reign for many generations in Israel.
When we read the Bible, we're fed by God's Word and supplied for our Christian 
life. Jesus mentioned this in Matthew 4:4 when He said...
"Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out through 
the mouth of God."
Other verses in the Bible also make it clear that God's Word is nourishment to us. 
For example...
1 Peter 2:2 says, "As newborn babes, long for the guileless milk of the word in 
order that by it you may grow unto salvation."
And in the Old Testament, Jeremiah 15:16 says...

"Your words were found and I ate them, and Your word became to me the gladness 
and joy of my heart."
The Word is also seed! 1 Peter 1:23 For you have been born again, not of 
perishable seed, but of imperishable seed through the living and enduring word of 
God.
Hosea 10:12 Sow for yourselves righteousness; reap steadfast love; break up your 
fallow (unsown) ground, for it is the time to seek the Lord, that he may come and 
rain righteousness upon you.
With just those few verses we see the importance of reading the Bible. It's our fuel 
that keeps the fire, zeal, hunger and thirst for God fresh and the favor of God 
always active in you and the ministry.
Also reading devotional books like leadership books that teach biblical principles. 
This is good for you because it gives you a word and builds you up because you're 
constantly ministering to people but there's usually no one ministering to the 
minister!
Another great reason reading biblical books are so good for you and the ministry is 
because it will give you a different perspective and fresh new way to minister and 
even do teachings based on what you have learned from the author.
Some Devotional Ideas
Start a daily reading. This should be the start of your day before you do anything—
this is truly giving God your first fruits! Start from Genesis or Matthew and start 
reading at least a chapter a day and meditate on it. Read the Bible through; don't 
go back and forth—read the next chapter every day from wherever you decide to 
start. (No phones, no noise, no distractions during this time! This is your time to 
pray and read God's Word, so you can seek The Lord.)
Sermon Study time. You should have one day set aside to put your sermon 
together for your preaching. (Usually it should be the day before the sermon or 
teaching, but through the week you should meditate on and even put small 
notations down on what you want to share.)
Biblical book reading. Buy a book written by a sound doctrine teacher and set 
aside a little time at night before you sleep—at least 5 to 10 minutes . This is a 
blessing because you go to sleep with the word of God and ideas about the 
teaching you just read.

Challenge your congregation to read. Every sermon you should bring up how 
important the word of God is. When you have personal and group fellowships with 
your people, challenge them to start reading the Bible at least a chapter a day. 
Also follow up and challenge them to be consistent in reading. Here's why this is 
so important... Jesus said you must be born again to see and enter the Kingdom of 
God! (John 3). The book of Peter as we read earlier teaches us how to become 
born again... 1 Peter 1:23 "For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, 
but of imperishable seed through the living and enduring word of God." GET THEM 
TO PLANT THE SEED THAT WILL BEAR THE FRUIT! (Galatians 5:21) (New Living 
Translation Bible is a great version to recommend because it is easy to 
understand. NLT)
This section has covered the importance of the word of God and how it can benefit 
you and the ones you lead!
Remember the Raiders are leaders