

Studying for Service Introduction
“Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be 
ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.” — 2 Timothy 2:15
This scripture deals with a few points we need to understand. First, the reason why 
we study is because we are supposed to please God and care about approval from 
Him and not from man. Second, we are supposed to never be ashamed of the 
Gospel; we should preach it to anyone, anytime, anyplace. Third, we are to rightly 
divide the Word of God, meaning we are to quote and use Scriptures in context; 
we are to know the Word so much so that we are able to defend the faith, explain 
the faith, and minister properly the Word of truth so that people will be able to 
understand it from ages 8 to 80.
Sadly, many ministers are not doing this. Maybe because they are not studying 
properly—because they get too caught up in other responsibilities in the ministry. 
They need to understand this is the most important part of their service to God: to 
feed the sheep. A good shepherd always has treats in his shepherd’s bag. Maybe it 
is because they simply are not men of the Word—what I mean by not men of the 
Word is they do not read the Word on a daily basis to feed themselves; they just 
read when they need a sermon. The problem with this is because they are limited 
in their knowledge of the Bible, they cannot give others knowledge because they 
are limited themselves. This is why God rebuked the priests in the prophet Hosea’s 
day and told them, “My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou 
hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: 
seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy children” 
(Hosea 4:6).
I don’t know about you, but I definitely don’t want to be rejected as God’s minister, 
and I don’t want my children to miss out on any blessing because of my laziness 
toward His Word or laziness to tend to His sheep properly.
I believe this is why our Master told us something very important when He 
defeated the enemy in the desert. Jesus said, “It is written, Man shall not live by 
bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God” 
(Matthew 4:4).
The key word there is EVERY word. We need to want every word of God in our 
lives. The more we know, the more the people will know, because you can’t give 
someone something you don’t have. Recently I was in a pastors’ meeting where 
this topic was discussed about the importance of the Word in our lives on a daily 
basis. A few months after this meeting one minister from California said, “Anthony, 
my life has changed ever since that meeting. It changed the way I even breathe. 
It’s changed me and my ministry has changed because I have been in the Word on 
a daily basis.” Another minister from New Jersey said, “Anthony, I never realized 

how much stuff I didn’t know until I started reading every day.” So, in short, you’re 
truly not going to receive the fullness of God’s Word until you start reading God’s 
Word.
The reason why I am stressing this so much is because you can read this book and 
a hundred others, but if you don’t make a decision to get in the Holy Book on a 
daily basis, you will never operate in the fullness of the anointing that God wants 
you to operate in.
This book is going to cover ways to study the Bible on a few different levels. It will 
help you learn how to get in depth and also how to make a sermon memorable and 
meaningful to yourself and the ones you minister to so we can truly be approved 
by God. We need to remember it’s really not so much about what you say as it is 
about how you say it. This book is going to help you say it in such a way that it will 
be exciting. Think about this: if your sermon doesn’t excite you, it’s probably not 
going to excite them.
I have seen many ministers preach a word out of context, without other solid 
references to back up what they were saying, and sermons that just didn’t go 
anywhere because they didn’t have any structure—no points and no application to 
apply the words they said. This is because of a lack of education in ministry and 
teachers that have not trained them properly because either they were limited in 
the knowledge of God’s Word themselves or they did not want to hurt their 
student’s feelings, so they never gave constructive criticism.
I remember when I was in Bible school training to be a pastor, there was a time I 
had to go up and minister in front of a group of pastors and teachers from the 
school. Their job was to critique the students after they were done sharing a word. 
After I finished preaching they pointed out so many mistakes in my preaching that I 
had second thoughts about whether I was even called to preach God’s Word. As 
time went on, though, I realized if they wouldn’t have pointed out the mistakes I 
would have never learned from them, and I would never have learned to minister 
properly. So, I thank God for the correction they gave me. The Bible says that if a 
man doesn’t take correction he is stupid (Proverbs 12:1). So thank God I took 
correction—and plenty of it. I graduated after over two years of training and 
received my pastor’s license under the Church of God, International, Cleveland, 
TN.
I have had the privilege of serving under some incredible and anointed ministers. I 
sat under a pastor for three years who was a preaching machine. He was the type 
of minister that screamed, jumped, walked on the pews, sang, and ran around. I 
also sat under my other pastor for another three years who was a teaching pastor. 
I mean this man never left the pulpit and his whole sermon was on paper—every 
word. I thank God because through these pastors that God put in my life I have 

1.
2.
learned how to preach and teach. I have been very fortunate to have these 
awesome opportunities that many people never have a chance to experience. And 
because of this I want to share the things that I have been taught with other 
ministers. I am not saying I know everything there is to know; I am growing every 
day. But what I do know I have a desire to share with others so together we will 
minister more effectively for the glory of our God.
Please pray that God will give you wisdom to receive the fullness of the 
information in this book because Jesus is our true teacher.
Chapter 1
Know Your Text
Before you can get in depth in your preaching you first must know your text.
What do I mean when I say know your text? It simply means familiarize yourself 
with the story you are preaching. This is important because you don’t want to 
misquote the Word or add or subtract from the Word; you want to stay in context. 
Also, let’s say the story you are preaching or teaching about has a lot of verses to 
do with the story; instead of reading a lot of verses you can just read the major 
verses that have to do with the preaching and reference the rest by verbally telling 
the people what was going on in the text. Let’s say I was preaching on Lazarus 
(John 11:1–46). Instead of reading all 46 verses that had to do with the story of 
Lazarus, I’ll just read maybe four to ten verses and tell people the rest of the story. 
In school I learned you should only read ten to twelve verses max because you 
don’t want people to drift off while you’re reading. A good way of preventing this is 
to read a few verses then verbally tell them the rest of the story in regards to 
whatever you are preaching.
In order to tell the story accurately, make sure you read the story a few times so it 
can sink into your heart, mind, and spirit. I want to show you a few ways to prevent 
preaching out of context and knowing the fullness of the text.
The Five W’s: What, Where, When, Why, and Who
What was going on in the text? Let’s say in John 11. Lazarus was sick and 
then died. Jesus purposely let Lazarus die so He could raise him up 
again. Mary and Martha, Lazarus’ sisters, were mourning over the death 
of their brother.
Where were they? In a city called Bethany about two miles away from 
Jerusalem; also, they went to the tomb site where Lazarus was buried.

3.
4.
5.
When did this happen? There are a few ways you can answer this 
question. It was four days after Lazarus died; it was a time that the Jews 
wanted to capture Jesus; or you can say it was between the years of 28 
A.D. and 31 A.D. Then talk about how it was a different time: no big 
hospitals, no electricity, no air conditioning, or strong pain medication to 
comfort a dying Lazarus.
Why did this happen? Lazarus was sick and nothing they tried worked. Or 
you could say why Jesus didn’t answer Mary and Martha’s request for 
Jesus to come heal Lazarus was because He wanted to give them not just 
a healing but a miracle. Or you can say why people die is because sin 
came in the world and that is one of the consequences of a sin-fallen 
world, but thank God Jesus showed up as the resurrection and the life.
Who was the text talking about? Jesus, the disciples, Lazarus, Martha, 
Mary, and the people that were there during the mourning of Lazarus.
Stay in Context
Make sure you’re not trying to make the Scripture say something it’s really not.
I heard some ministers say that Jesus had to say Lazarus’ name when He came to 
the tomb because if He would have just said “arise,” all the dead would have been 
resurrected. There’s a problem there because the Bible doesn’t say this. Also, in 
that time period Lazarus was a very common name. If this was true, why didn’t all 
the Lazaruses that were dead come back to life? It sounds good, but it’s not a 
biblical fact.
Let’s say you’re going to preach a textual sermon. This is the kind of sermon 
where you are not just using one text or one story but you are using many 
Scriptures from many different books of the Bible to prove your topic. If you were 
preaching on faith, then you would look for Scriptures and stories that had to do 
with faith. We have to make sure we are not misquoting God’s Word. So when you 
look up those Scriptures make sure you do not take them out of context and you 
are not making them say something they are not.
Let me give you an example. Right now, if you can, quote out loud Philippians 4:19. 
Now read it: “And my God shall supply all your need according to His riches in 
glory by Christ Jesus.” You probably said “my God shall provide all MY needs.” You 
see, the apostle Paul said “my God shall supply all YOUR needs.”
The reason why he said this is because if you read the whole book or letter 
addressed to the Philippians you will see the apostle Paul commending them on 

giving to the ministry and sending people to help with the ministry from their 
church, and he commends them on their love and generosity. After he does that, 
then he says, “And my God shall supply all your need according to His riches in 
glory by Christ Jesus.” He was speaking to them; he wasn’t speaking about 
himself.
We quote this verse without realizing that that church was a giving, loving, and 
sacrificial church. That’s why Paul said their needs will be provided for by God—
because they helped and provided for Paul and others.
We have to explain to people the fullness of the Scriptures in context, not out of 
context. The way you can explain this text in context is to say something like this: 
“Paul the apostle was speaking about them and not himself in this verse. The 
reason people are not being provided for is because we get greedy and we don’t 
want to sacrifice our time, talents, and resources for God’s glory, but until we start 
loving, giving, and start sacrificing like the Philippians, all our needs will not be 
provided for.” It’s time to be selfless and not selfish. Then and only then will God 
provide all of your needs.
Let’s look at one more verse. Quote Isaiah 54:17 out loud. Now let’s read it: “No 
weapon formed against you shall prosper, and every tongue which rises against 
you in judgment you shall condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the 
LORD, and their righteousness is from Me,” says the LORD.
Weapons are formed and they prosper in a lot of people’s lives. Why is this if this 
Scripture clearly says that it will be formed but it will not prosper? Because we 
look at a verse and we quote the part we like without realizing the fullness of the 
Scripture. The word heritage in this verse is another word for benefit. This means 
this promise is a benefit and only applies to the people who are true servants of 
the LORD.
Servants of God will go through trials and weapons will form, but they will not 
prosper because they have benefits from serving God. On the other hand, when 
you don’t serve the Lord you forsake this benefit. A good way to explain this verse 
is just like a doctor has benefits like Christmas bonuses, paid vacations, and all the 
other perks—but as soon as he doesn’t do his job and ignores his priorities and 
responsibilities, he forsakes those benefits because he has cut himself off.
So whether it’s a story or a verse, make sure it’s in context.
Read, Read, and Read Again
The most important thing, after you have answered the Five W’s and know you are 
in context, is to read the story or the chapter over and over until you can tell the 
complete story or reference the whole chapter without reading it.

Some ministers read a few verses and then preach it—without realizing if they 
would have read and known the text better, it could have added so much more to 
the preaching. A good way of not making this mistake is to read the whole chapter 
of the story you are ministering on, but also read the chapters before and after the 
main chapter. For instance, if you were preaching on John 11, also see what was 
going on in John 9–10 and John 12 to see if you can add more to the story you are 
preaching. Like in John 12 the Bible says that Lazarus and his sisters made Jesus a 
dinner, and as Jesus was reclining at the table, Mary anointed Jesus with a very 
expensive perfume (John 12:1–4).
When you study, remember we are studying for our Savior’s service, so take your 
time and read and know your text. If you have ever read John 11, have you noticed 
John 11:35? It says only two words; as a matter of fact, it is the shortest verse in 
the Bible: “Jesus wept.” The reason why He wept is because of their unbelief, their 
ignorance, and because He loved His friend. You can preach a whole sermon on 
that one verse with two words. It’s one of the most powerful Scriptures to preach if 
you understand the seriousness of the text that it’s in.
Most people miss that fact because they are in too big of a rush to get through 
with studying. Take your time and read your Word. Know your text, because the 
more you know your text the more people will know their God.